# EGU2020 Short Course 1.11: Working with big, multi-dimensional geoscientific datasets in Python: an interactive tutorial introduction to xarray and pangeo

**Date and Time**:
Thursday May 07, 2020 08:30 AM - 12:30 PM

**Location**: Room -2.16, Vienna Conference Center

**Instructors**: TBA

**Abstract**

Bring your laptop to this hands-on workshop sponsored by the Pangeo project! Pangeo is first and foremost a community promoting open, reproducible, and scalable science.

This course is organised in two mostly independent sessions of 1 hour 45 minutes each. It is open to all and is intended for both experienced and inexperienced programmers. Participants will learn about Python and several open-source software packages for analytic workflows with (big) data in Earth Science. Particular emphasis will be given to Jupyter, Xarray, and Dask software libraries for analysis of multidimensional modeling and remote sensing data sets.

The first block will focus on the software xarray, a package developed specifically to process, analyse and plot labelled multi-dimensional datasets.  

The second block will put emphasis on big data workflows on the cloud. We will use introductory and advanced examples used in peer-reviewed research in the fields of oceanography, hydrology, and solid earth geophysics.

**Workshop Agenda**

| Time  | Topic |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| 08:30 - 10:15  | Block 1: An introduction to xarray  |
| 10:15 - 10:45  | Coffe break  |
| 10:45 - 12:00  | Block 2: Scalable geoscience with pangeo  |

**Learning Objectives:**  

Block 1:
 - Reading data from disk (e.g. netCDF, HDF5)
 - Basic maths and groupby operations
 - Out-of-memory (lazy) computation aka "big data on a small laptop"
 - Plotting using in-built functions
 - Writing out the data to various formats and compression

Block 2:
 - Setting your up online environment
 - Designing a big data workflow
 - ....
